endorsement.md, before:

# Endorsement of the Digital Public Goods Alliance Standard

This is a list of open source, open content and open data advocacy and advancement experts 
supporting the [Digital Public Goods Alliance Standard](standard.md). Endorsement means agreement
with the standard for Digital Public Goods set out through the indicators, and a willingness to 
have your name and title publicly listed as having contributed to and endorsing the standard. 

*Note: attribution to this endorsement is explicitly made by the individual, not their organization.*

### Endorse the standard

Two ways to endorse the standard: 

1. Add your name to the list and endorse the standard by editing this file and submitting a Pull Request directly from your browser. 
2. Complete [this form](https://forms.gle/knVvbv4mLfxkHtFS8) and we'll add you to the endorsement list.  

## Endorsement List

*Note: the list is sorted alphabetically by last name*

Full Name | Title | Organization 
--- | --- | ---
[Sean Blaschke](https://github.com/seanblaschke) | Technology for Development Business Analyst, UNICEF Eastern and Southern Africa Regional Office | [UNICEF](https://www.unicef.org/)
[Matt Germonrez](https://github.com/germonprez) | Professor, College of Information Science & Technology at University of Nebraska at Omaha | [CHAOSS](https://chaoss.community/)
[Sean P. Goggins](https://github.com/sgoggins) | Professor, College of Engineering at University of Missouri | [CHAOSS](https://chaoss.community/)
[Victor Grau Serrat](https://github.com/lacabra) | Technical Lead, UNICEF Office of Innovation | [UNICEF](https://www.unicef.org/innovation/)
[Lucy Harris](https://github.com/lucyeoh) | Secretariat Co-Lead, Digital Public Goods Alliance | [Digital Public Goods Alliance](https://digitalpublicgoods.net)
[Georg J.P. Link](https://github.com/GeorgLink) | Open Source Strategist | [CHAOSS](https://chaoss.community/)
Jon Lloyd | Director of Campaigns at Mozilla Foundation | [Mozilla Foundation](https://foundation.mozilla.org/en/)
Don Marti | |
[Liv Marte Nordhaug](https://github.com/livmarte) | Secretariat Co-Lead, Digital Public Goods Alliance | [Digital Public Goods Alliance](https://digitalpublicgoods.net)

Commit message:

:new: :black_nib: Add my endorsement for DPG Standard
Signed-off-by: Justin W. Flory (he/him) [UNICEF Innovation] <jflory@unicef.org>

endorsement.md, after:

# Endorsement of the Digital Public Goods Alliance Standard

This is a list of open source, open content and open data advocacy and advancement experts
supporting the [Digital Public Goods Alliance Standard](standard.md). Endorsement means agreement
with the standard for Digital Public Goods set out through the indicators, and a willingness to
have your name and title publicly listed as having contributed to and endorsing the standard.

*Note: attribution to this endorsement is explicitly made by the individual, not their organization.*

### Endorse the standard

Two ways to endorse the standard:

1. Add your name to the list and endorse the standard by editing this file and submitting a Pull Request directly from your browser.
2. Complete [this form](https://forms.gle/knVvbv4mLfxkHtFS8) and we'll add you to the endorsement list.

## Endorsement List

*Note: the list is sorted alphabetically by last name*

Full Name | Title | Organization
--- | --- | ---
[Sean Blaschke](https://github.com/seanblaschke) | Technology for Development Business Analyst, UNICEF Eastern and Southern Africa Regional Office | [UNICEF](https://www.unicef.org/)
[Matt Germonrez](https://github.com/germonprez) | Professor, College of Information Science & Technology at University of Nebraska at Omaha | [CHAOSS](https://chaoss.community/)
[Sean P. Goggins](https://github.com/sgoggins) | Professor, College of Engineering at University of Missouri | [CHAOSS](https://chaoss.community/)
[Victor Grau Serrat](https://github.com/lacabra) | Technical Lead, UNICEF Office of Innovation | [UNICEF](https://www.unicef.org/innovation/)
[Lucy Harris](https://github.com/lucyeoh) | Secretariat Co-Lead, Digital Public Goods Alliance | [Digital Public Goods Alliance](https://digitalpublicgoods.net)
[Georg J.P. Link](https://github.com/GeorgLink) | Open Source Strategist | [CHAOSS](https://chaoss.community/)
Jon Lloyd | Director of Campaigns at Mozilla Foundation | [Mozilla Foundation](https://foundation.mozilla.org/en/)
Don Marti | |
[Liv Marte Nordhaug](https://github.com/livmarte) | Secretariat Co-Lead, Digital Public Goods Alliance | [Digital Public Goods Alliance](https://digitalpublicgoods.net)
[Justin W. Flory](https://jwf.io) | Open Source Technical Advisor, UNICEF Office of Innovation | [UNICEF Innovation Fund](https://unicefinnovationfund.org/)
