README.md, before:

[![CC BY-SA 4.0][cc-by-sa-shield]](LICENSE)
[![Contributor Covenant][code-of-conduct-shield]](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md)

<p align="center">
    <img alt="oss image" src="docs/standard-badge.svg" height="150px" width="150px">
</p>
<h1 align="center">Digital Public Goods Standard</h1>

The [digital public goods standard](standard.md) is a set of specifications and guidelines designed to maximize consensus about whether something conforms to the definition of digital public goods as laid out by the UN Secretary General in the 2020 Roadmap to Digital Cooperation: *digital public goods must be open source software, open data, open AI models, open standards and open content that adhere to privacy and other applicable laws and best practices, do no harm, and help attain the SDGs.*

This standard establishes a baseline of quality that must be met in order to earn recognition as a digital public good by the DPG Alliance and broader community. The standard itself is [open to contribution](standard.md) and we invite anyone who uses and benefits from the standard to [join our growing list of endorsers](endorsement.md). 

## 🔎 Current Version

[The Standard](standard.md) is currently at version 1.0, published on Sept. 15, 2020.

## ✅ Application of the Standard

We encourage creators, maintainers, funders, implementers and consumers to use this standard to recognize, assess and support digital public goods. We maintain a list of vetted digital public goods that meet the standards described above on [our platform](https://digitalpublicgoods.net/platform).  

We apply this standard to projects on our platform that have either been [nominated directly](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSdGzlBiecPBlVvJXmcMKXF3zdxASY8vGnrdnNNwp7fVKb169A/viewform) or have been pulled together from partnership databases. Projects that are submitted to our platform will undergo three stages of review to ensure that they meet the requirements laid out in the standard. As a project undergoes various reviews it will move from **Nominee**, to **Candidate**, to a fully reviewed **Digital Public Good**. 

Movement through the process shall be transparently displayed on GitHub and can be [viewed here](https://github.com/unicef/publicgoods-candidates/pulls). If a project meets the standard it will be officially considered a Digital Public Good and will be showcased on the website and may be eligible for additional recognition and support.

## 👍 Endorsements

The Standard is endorsed by [a growing list](endorsement.md) of open source, open content and open data advocacy and advancement experts. Endorsement means agreement with the standard for Digital Public Goods set out through the indicators, and a willingness to have your name and title publicly listed as having contributed to and endorsing the standard.

Add yours by editing the [file](endorsement.md), and submitting a Pull Request.

## 🤗 Code of Conduct

The Digital Public Goods Alliance is dedicated to building a welcoming, diverse and safe community. We expect everyone participating in the Digital Public Goods Alliance community to abide by our [**Code of Conduct**](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md). Please read it. Please follow it. In the Digital Public Goods Alliance, we work hard to build each other up and create amazing things together. 💪💜

## 🙏 Acknowledgements

Thank you to all the individuals that contributed to and [endorsed](endorsement.md) the standard, as well as well as to the participants of the **Early Grade Reading Community of Practice**. We also thank the following organizations: UNICEF, Norway, iSPIRT, Sierra Leone and the DPG Alliance Secretariat.

*Image Credit: [Badge](https://thenounproject.com/search/?q=seal+of+approval&i=32270) by André Luiz from [the Noun Project](http://thenounproject.com/), released under a CC license.*

## :memo: License

This repository is primarily content, and it is licensed under a [Creative Commons Attribution ShareAlike 4.0 International License](LICENSE).

[![CC BY-SA 4.0][cc-by-sa-image]](LICENSE)

> This is a human-readable summary of (and not a substitute for) the license.
> 
> You are free to:
> * **Share** — copy and redistribute the material in any medium or format
> * **Adapt** — remix, transform, and build upon the material for any purpose, even commercially.
> 
> The licensor cannot revoke these freedoms as long as you follow the license terms.
> 
> * **Attribution** — You must give appropriate credit, provide a link to the license, and indicate if changes were made. You may do so in any reasonable manner, but not in any way that suggests the licensor endorses you or your use.
> * **ShareAlike** — If you remix, transform, or build upon the material, you must distribute your contributions under the same license as the original.
>
> No additional restrictions — You may not apply legal terms or technological measures that legally restrict others from doing anything the license permits.

[cc-by-sa-image]: https://licensebuttons.net/l/by-sa/4.0/88x31.png
[cc-by-sa-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/License-CC%20BY--SA%204.0-lightgrey.svg
[code-of-conduct-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/Contributor%20Covenant-v2.0%20adopted-ff69b4.svg

Commit message:

Added link to Endorsement form.

README.md, after:

[![CC BY-SA 4.0][cc-by-sa-shield]](LICENSE)
[![Contributor Covenant][code-of-conduct-shield]](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md)

<p align="center">
    <img alt="oss image" src="docs/standard-badge.svg" height="150px" width="150px">
</p>
<h1 align="center">Digital Public Goods Standard</h1>

The [digital public goods standard](standard.md) is a set of specifications and guidelines designed to maximize consensus about whether something conforms to the definition of digital public goods as laid out by the UN Secretary General in the 2020 Roadmap to Digital Cooperation: *digital public goods must be open source software, open data, open AI models, open standards and open content that adhere to privacy and other applicable laws and best practices, do no harm, and help attain the SDGs.*

This standard establishes a baseline of quality that must be met in order to earn recognition as a digital public good by the DPG Alliance and broader community. The standard itself is [open to contribution](standard.md) and we invite anyone who uses and benefits from the standard to [join our growing list of endorsers](endorsement.md). 

## 🔎 Current Version

[The Standard](standard.md) is currently at version 1.0, published on Sept. 15, 2020.

## ✅ Application of the Standard

We encourage creators, maintainers, funders, implementers and consumers to use this standard to recognize, assess and support digital public goods. We maintain a list of vetted digital public goods that meet the standards described above on [our platform](https://digitalpublicgoods.net/platform).  

We apply this standard to projects on our platform that have either been [nominated directly](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSdGzlBiecPBlVvJXmcMKXF3zdxASY8vGnrdnNNwp7fVKb169A/viewform) or have been pulled together from partnership databases. Projects that are submitted to our platform will undergo three stages of review to ensure that they meet the requirements laid out in the standard. As a project undergoes various reviews it will move from **Nominee**, to **Candidate**, to a fully reviewed **Digital Public Good**. 

Movement through the process shall be transparently displayed on GitHub and can be [viewed here](https://github.com/unicef/publicgoods-candidates/pulls). If a project meets the standard it will be officially considered a Digital Public Good and will be showcased on the website and may be eligible for additional recognition and support.

## 👍 Endorsements

The Standard is endorsed by [a growing list](endorsement.md) of open source, open content and open data advocacy and advancement experts. Endorsement means agreement with the standard for Digital Public Goods set out through the indicators, and a willingness to have your name and title publicly listed as having contributed to and endorsing the standard.

Add yours by editing the [file](endorsement.md), and submitting a Pull Request or filling out [this form](https://forms.gle/knVvbv4mLfxkHtFS8).

## 🤗 Code of Conduct

The Digital Public Goods Alliance is dedicated to building a welcoming, diverse and safe community. We expect everyone participating in the Digital Public Goods Alliance community to abide by our [**Code of Conduct**](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md). Please read it. Please follow it. In the Digital Public Goods Alliance, we work hard to build each other up and create amazing things together. 💪💜

## 🙏 Acknowledgements

Thank you to all the individuals that contributed to and [endorsed](endorsement.md) the standard, as well as well as to the participants of the **Early Grade Reading Community of Practice**. We also thank the following organizations: UNICEF, Norway, iSPIRT, Sierra Leone and the DPG Alliance Secretariat.

*Image Credit: [Badge](https://thenounproject.com/search/?q=seal+of+approval&i=32270) by André Luiz from [the Noun Project](http://thenounproject.com/), released under a CC license.*

## :memo: License

This repository is primarily content, and it is licensed under a [Creative Commons Attribution ShareAlike 4.0 International License](LICENSE).

[![CC BY-SA 4.0][cc-by-sa-image]](LICENSE)

> This is a human-readable summary of (and not a substitute for) the license.
> 
> You are free to:
> * **Share** — copy and redistribute the material in any medium or format
> * **Adapt** — remix, transform, and build upon the material for any purpose, even commercially.
> 
> The licensor cannot revoke these freedoms as long as you follow the license terms.
> 
> * **Attribution** — You must give appropriate credit, provide a link to the license, and indicate if changes were made. You may do so in any reasonable manner, but not in any way that suggests the licensor endorses you or your use.
> * **ShareAlike** — If you remix, transform, or build upon the material, you must distribute your contributions under the same license as the original.
>
> No additional restrictions — You may not apply legal terms or technological measures that legally restrict others from doing anything the license permits.

[cc-by-sa-image]: https://licensebuttons.net/l/by-sa/4.0/88x31.png
[cc-by-sa-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/License-CC%20BY--SA%204.0-lightgrey.svg
[code-of-conduct-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/Contributor%20Covenant-v2.0%20adopted-ff69b4.svg
